= Download
// See COPYING.adoc for license terms of this file.

== Game data

_Freedoom_ is available in two versions, the first of which is a
single-player focused game, split in two parts, each of which is
compatible with different versions of the classic _Doom_ franchise
from id Software.  The second is a multiplayer-focused experience for
the popular ``deathmatch'' game mode.

[horizontal]
https://github.com/freedoom/freedoom/releases/download/v0.13.0/freedoom-0.13.0.zip[Freedoom: Phase 1+2]::

    _Phase 1_ is the first part of the single-player game, containing
    four episodes which are nine levels each, smoothly paced for
    beginner players.  It is compatible with mods for the original
    _Doom_ and _The Ultimate Doom_.
    +
    +
    _Phase 2_ is the second major part of the single-player game, a
    massive 32-level episode expanding upon the same concepts present
    in _Phase 1_, as well as containing additional monsters and the
    double-barreled shotgun!  The levels in this game tend to demand
    more skillful play than the previous episodes.  It is compatible
    with mods for _Doom II_.

https://github.com/freedoom/freedoom/releases/download/v0.13.0/freedm-0.13.0.zip[FreeDM]::

    _FreeDM_ is a fast-paced competitive deathmatch game, part of the
    Freedoom project.  Rather than the usual single-player focused
    levels, these contain no monsters and are intended for deathmatch
    only.  It is compatible with mods for _Doom II_.

== Engine

_Freedoom_ requires the additional download of a game engine to
play. The following engines are highly recommended by the _Freedoom_
project:

[horizontal]
https://gzdoom.drdteam.org/[GZDoom]::

    GZDoom is an advanced engine, with many features and extremely
    high compatibility with the majority of mods released for _Doom_
    and _Freedoom_.

https://fabiangreffrath.github.io/crispy-doom[Crispy Doom]::

    Crispy Doom is a minimalist engine, adding few extra features to
    the engine while maintaining an old school feel.

These engines, and https://doomwiki.org/wiki/Source_port[many others],
are made possible thanks to the _Doom_ engine being released as
https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html[free software] in 1997.

=== Android

The _Freedoom_ project does not officially support any engines nor
forks, though we would like to note for convenience that there is a
packaged version with GZDoom available for Android devices.  It is
available either on the
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.nullsum.freedoom[Google
Play Store], or as an installable
https://github.com/mkrupczak3/Freedoom-for-Android/releases/latest[APK].

== Development snapshots

Freedoom is a project with constant, active development. If you would
like to check out the current progress of the project, you may want to
see an automated http://freedoom.soulsphere.org/[build of the latest
version in Git].

== Previous releases

Freedoom is an old project with many past releases, you may find some
of them on the https://github.com/freedoom/freedoom/releases[GitHub
release page]. Unfortunately, many old releases have been officially
pulled due to copyright violations discovered in the source tree, so
we can only provide as back as far as 0.6.4.
